This is Colossians chapter four, beginning verse two.
Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with thanksgiving.
Meanwhile praying for also for us that God would open to us a door for the word to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in chains, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
walk in wisdom towards those who are outside, redeeming the time.
Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one.
This is where God, for the people of God.
Amen.
May God add His blessing to the reading and His word.
You may be seated.
There is a passage in the New Testament that I have read and heard since I was young, very young, and I had trouble understanding it until very recently.
I don't know if I'm slow or I just couldn't put the pieces together or it wasn't time for me to understand it, but sometimes, you know,
You don't pick things up right away and you wonder why other people can.
Well, I could explain the verse on one level, a passage, excuse me, but I had trouble explaining it on another.
And I want to share with you, it's out of Matthew chapter 9, verses 14 through 17.
I'm going to read that here in just a second.
And what I want you to pay attention to is that Jesus has some parables in this real short passage.
And I'm going to give you a basic understanding what I had of them and then tell you what God showed me throughout the last few weeks.
The reason I tell you this is on one level, there's a meaning to the passage, but I wasn't satisfied because I thought there was more to it.
And normally when you feel convicted, there's something more to it.
There usually is.
Usually the Holy Spirit promptings making us want to dig.
I dug as much as I could still couldn't find that answer.
So let me read for you Matthew 9 verses 14 through 17.
Then the disciples of John came to him that is Jesus saying, why do we in the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples do not fast?
And Jesus said to them,
Can the friends of the bridegroom mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them?
But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them and then they will fast.
No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch pulls away from the garment and the tear is made worse.
Nor do they put new wine into old wineskins or else the wineskins break.
The wine is spilled and the wineskins are ruined.
But they put new wine into new wineskins and both are preserved.
I think part of the reason I didn't understand the passages I've never used, the wineskin.
Oh, new world.
I didn't even know what they looked like or what they were about.
And that's okay because the way I used to understand this parable didn't really matter that much.
And by that I mean the intent of the parable
is kind of clear to us by reading it, but in practicality for our life.
How do we apply it?
And what he's saying in this passage is, new and old don't mix.
The unshrunk patch and the wine skin with wine always confuse me because I thought, well,
Here's how we explain it.
If we have a hole in a cotton shirt and we need to patch that hole, we don't have iron-on patches like my mom used to put on my jeans when I got holes in the knees, which made them look worse, rather have to hold.
That's now modern design and style to have holes in the jean pre-made before you even buy them.
I don't understand that.
I keep thinking, you know, someone sold you a bill of goods, less material for more money.
But the way I looked at it was that on a cotton shirt that you've worn a while, it's been washed, dried, washed, dried many times.
It is shrunk to the size it's going to be.
Now you might think, but it's still tighter than it used to be.
That's a you, not the shirt.
So if it has a hole, we need to patch it.
And the way they did that back then was they would take a piece of cloth about the size of the hole and stitch it
on the edges of the hole.
Now, if that was a new piece of cotton material that they put in there and you wash it, that patch is going to shrink.
And it's going to pull on those stitches on the edge of that hole and rip it further.
That's what Jesus is talking about there.
And so he said, you don't want to do that because the new cotton piece that you want to put into its place hasn't been washed.
We are not going to be able to patch up sin with something new is what Jesus is saying in this passage, right?
Well, I sin.
I made a mistake.
He said, OK, well, let's just put a patch on it.
It doesn't work, does it?
We can't patch sin.
It just doesn't happen.
That was something needs to happen.
And so he talks about putting a new
way of looking at things in this passage and we're going to get there.
The reason the new patch doesn't match is you don't have an old piece laying around and you don't have a store that sells old pieces of material and I'll tell you why.
Because everything over there that they needed to use was being used.
You can't just go weave a small piece of material and then wear it out and put it on there.
It just doesn't happen.
That's not practical.
It's not how they would do things.
And there wasn't a store around where you could take it to a tailor to fix it either, because that kind of thing just didn't exist.
The tailors in that time made brand new things not fix old things unless it was something that had come unstitched, but not a whole.
Basically what this means and what it means for us is a hole in a garment means a garment will never be complete anymore.
It cannot be completely what it was designed for.
It's going to have an imperfection or a flaw and you can't fix it.
And that's what Jesus is saying here.
I saw children when I was in Malawi with holes in their garments.
There just isn't enough clothes for them to have a second pair, so they had to wear the ones with holes in it.
And because there's not enough clothes for them to have a second pair, there's not enough cloth anywhere to fix the one they have.
So they wear what they had.
When we passed out shirts to the different people, that was probably their second or maybe third shirt they possess.
Because the clothes they wear, they have to wear over and over again.
Because they can't afford new ones, they don't have a place
to get new ones, and they don't have enough material to make one or to pay for a tailor to make them one.
It is a very, very, very poverty-stricken places where we went, and I got to see that.
As a matter of fact, this other's one little boy.
He was wearing adult shorts at age four.
They were huge on him, but he had clothes.
I'm sure they were either hand-me-downs or pick-me-ups from somewhere.
So when we talk about garments with holes, what Jesus is saying is, in a life of sin, once you have that first sin, you can't patch sin.
It makes sense, right?
And that's how I understood that verse, but there's a little more to it because he says, new wine won't go in old wine skins.
This is a reference to us.
It's also a reference to communion.
We need a new body to house the new wine, which is His blood.
Otherwise, we put the blood of Jesus into a sin-laden body which destroys and makes both unclean.
That's what it says the old wineskin will be destroyed.
Now, I was stuck with that interpretation just like that for many years.
until about a month ago when I was at home taking one of those little portable community cups of waitress.
I don't know if you've taken those very often, but sooner or later you get frustrated trying to open them.
Seriously, you might get the bread out but you can't get the foil off the juice or you might get it such a way that you pull the
Whole lid off and you get the juice but not the bread.
Or you finally get it out and the bread's broken.
You spilled the juice all over yourself.
Very frustrating.
Well, that particular day I had one of those problems.
I pulled the lid thinking I was doing it right and the whole wafer and lid came off and I had the juice.
And I said, well, Lord, rather, spill this juice, I'm going to take the juice and figure out how to get this thing separated.
And I ended up with a wafer and about five parts, finally got it out.
I almost had to use scissors.
But that's how it sometimes is.
But when that happened, I was concerned.
Oh, I took the bread first.
I mean, last, I took the juice first.
Lord, does this matter?
And almost immediately he gave me an answer.
Why it took him years and years and years for me to figure out this wine skin and patch thing to what he was really saying
The fuddles me when he gave me an answer to that and like immediately.
Because if you look in the Passover cup that we symbolize, scripture says it comes after the meal, which is after the bread was broken, which happens at the beginning of the meal.
So in that regard, if you're trying to understand the Passover meal or the Seder meal, which we're going to do, you cannot have the cup first
that was representative of the one Jesus held.
Now, in a Passover meal, there's four cups, and it's the third cup, the Jesus, blessed and said was his blood and a new covenant.
So, there were other cups during the meal, but the third cup, the one that Jesus blessed and partook after the meal was over, was symbolic for what he was doing with it.
So in terms of the meal itself and the symbolism of what the cup stood for, it mattered which cup.
And in the order of the meal, it came after the bread.
Did that matter though when we take communion?
Some places only take bread.
Some places do both.
The answer was the verse in Matthew.
He said to me, you can't
put new wine into old wine skins.
And immediately I began to understand what Jesus was talking about.
In 2 Corinthians chapter 5 verse 17, we get an insight into how God works.
Maybe you've heard this verse many times.
It's one of those that people like to quote
And it's a good one.
It says this.
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation.
Old things have passed away.
Behold, all things have become new.
And that word new, right?
New wine, new wine skins, all things become new.
And so,
That's a clue to us that Jesus isn't just going to repair something, he's going to make a new.
And that's a good thing.
And one thing about communion when we partake, Jesus with the cup says, this is my blood poured out for you and for many for the forgiveness of sin.
It's a new covenant, a new covenant that I ratify with my blood.
We know that Jesus was establishing communion for us, but do we know really why it was so important that He said it was His blood poured out for us, not just on Calvary, but in communion as well.
Why is the blood so important?
And if you look in Leviticus there in chapter 17, the whole chapter talks about the significance of the blood.
But in verse
11, he says, the life of the flesh is in the blood.
And I've given it to you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls.
For it is the blood that makes atonement for the soul.
So it takes blood to forgive sin, to wash it away.
It is said in Scripture, a dead person has shed their blood.
They no longer have to pay for the sin because they're shedding the blood dead.
So death is required, not just, you know, bring your finger and drop some blood out and that covers your sin.
By saying blood covers sin and makes atonement.
It is of something that gives its life blood away, which means the thing must die.
And he talks about it further in that chapter in Leviticus.
He says, whatever man of the children of Israel or of the strangers, that's us, who dwell among you, who hunts and catches any animal or bird that may be eaten, he shall pour out its blood and cover it with dust.
Listen to this, 14, for the blood is the life of all flesh.
Its blood sustains its life.
Therefore, I said to the children of Israel, you shall not eat the blood of any flesh.
For the life of all flesh is its blood, wherever eats it will be cut off.
It sounds like blood's pretty important if it sustains life, if it's what matters.
And when we talk about this in Leviticus and the blood makes a toma for sin, I've known this for a long time.
But I didn't make the comparison
of that to communion and to the new one.
Because I just couldn't make that jump.
But I think you know this, a body without its blood in it is dead.
Would you agree?
You can't live without your blood.
You suck all the blood out of your body.
You are dead.
That's just a fact and it's common knowledge and it's not something you go, oh how profound scripture said that.
We know this.
If you don't have any blood in you, you can't survive.
And if you're very low on blood, you may not be able to survive as well.
But so we know body without blood is dead, but blood without a body is just a sticky mess looking for
a body to inhabit, like when we donate blood, that blood is a life-giving source to a body, but it needs a body to make it alive.
The blood makes that body that needs that blood alive.
You with me?
I mean, it's not real complicated.
Shall we say rocket science?
But I want to tell you something.
When blood goes into a body, it helps that body come back alive
when we're low on blood and we need a transfusion or platelets or anything like that.
But the thing about it is, is God, when he works in us, he doesn't repair what's broken.
He makes it brand new.
Think about that for a second.
He doesn't patch us up our sin and say, oh, look, it's all covered up.
You can't see it anymore.
There's a patch there and we all know it.
I was embarrassed to have patches on.
You know, I don't know if you'll remember these patches, but if you didn't iron them right, even if you did, that'd peel off.
I had patches, sometimes two and three patch on my pants, halfway on and halfway on.
It was worse to have them.
And when you say, well, I'm done with this and you peel it off, the hole's bigger.
See God, God isn't going to just patch something.
Oh, look, there's that patch over the sin.
Because it reminds you, there's still sin, it's covering.
So the covering of what God did in the Old Testament doesn't work for us.
It wasn't a completed work.
It was a cover over.
We needed something new to come out of it.
And Jesus says, my blood is a new covenant.
Not an old covenant, the way it used to be, but new.
So God, when he makes something brand new, he makes it holy.
And the only way it can be holy is if it's pure and undefiled.
Think of it like this.
Scripture tells us over and over again.
There is nothing unholy in the presence of God.
You can't look on God's face and live because we are unholy.
Moses couldn't and he was probably at that time the most righteous man around, but God still wouldn't let him look at his face.
because he even told Moses, no man shall look at my face and live because unrighteousness cannot stand in the presence of God's glory and holiness because it consumes what's unjust and unrighteous and what's not unjust is what's righteous and that's what remains and we are sinners.
So the holiness and glory and power of God would obliterate us and that's just how it is because God's holiness
will not allow anything unrighteous in its presence.
So when God wants to give us the lifeblood of Jesus, we need a body that's going to hold holiness.
We need something holy to house what's holy.
Question why society is changing so rapidly?
Are you searching for the reasons why?
Join us on the Rise Radio Podcast.
For a journey of discovery, have we wrestled with the latest social narratives, belief systems, ancient prophecies, strange phenomena, and spirituality.
Your worldview will never be the same again.
Rise above the noise.
Visit RiseRadio.net today.
So we get a new body for the new wine, the wine in the cup that Jesus held represented his blood.
When he held up the cup, it wasn't his blood in it, but he still said, this is my blood.
And the bread he broke, he said, this is my body.
Symbolic.
He was still living and breathing in the one he had.
So it was definitely symbolic as it is for us.
It is a physical manifestation of a spiritual reality that Jesus said this bread and this cup is my body.
So you remember what my body does for you.
That's why it says do this and remember what I've done for you.
Do it in remembrance of me.
as often as you do it.
Yeah, so we get a new body for the new line and the power and holiness of God which would destroy this flesh.
So we got to have a spiritual body and a spiritual body cannot sin and does not sin.
It's the flesh that sins.
Some people don't understand that and that's a wholly different message to talk about.
the new body, the spiritual body, that body gets the life blood of Jesus.
So you need the new body before you get the new blood.
So the body is first.
Makes sense, doesn't it?
The new covenant is poured into the new spiritual body.
That also happens to be
the body of Christ.
You say, well, faster than does that mean when you took me in the day, you sinned?
No.
No, because it's symbolic.
It's remembering what he's done.
So when I took the juice first, it was being recognized in a body that was already transformed spiritually.
The wafer just reminded me of that process in reverse order.
So I wanted you to know that the physical elements order doesn't matter what actually happens spiritually does.
Absolutely matters.
Being remade and remolded into something brand new requires us to have a spiritual body, the house, the Holy Spirit,
our Heavenly Father and His beloved Son, Jesus Christ.
They will not dwell in something unholy.
Yet, John 14 tells us that the Father and the Son, if we love others as Jesus has loved us and keep His commandments, He and the Father will come and make their home in us.
They can't make their home in us if we're unholy.
But if we love us others, as He has loved us and we keep His commandments, we are walking in righteousness and they can dwell in us.
We are holy when we do those things because God has made us clean and new by washing us and making us new creations spiritually.
So God comes in and dwells in us and makes us holy.
If we were unholy, God couldn't come in.
We'd disintegrate because we're in the presence of God's all-powerful mighty
righteousness as ungodly people.
Communion is the outward sign of the actuality of God's recreating work in us.
It's exactly what communion is.
I'll say it again.
Communion is the outward sign of the actuality of God's recreating work in you and me.
During communion, we agree with what Jesus said and remember what he did and why.
In 1 Corinthians chapter 11, the institution of holy communion that we use, in verses 23 through 26, we hear this and you hear me say this every first Sunday or as often as we do communion.
The Lord Jesus on the same night when she was betrayed took bread and when he had given things he broke it and said, take eat this is my body which is broken for you do this in remembrance of me.
In the same manner he also took the cup after supper saying this cup is a new covenant in my blood this do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me.
Verse 26, for as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup you proclaim the Lord's death
until he comes.
You proclaim his death.
What's his death but us getting his body?
And when we get his body, we can receive his blood.
What good is us being the body of Christ without the lifeblood in it?
Right?
We need that.
So we are now new creations in Jesus Christ.
We have his
lifeblood in us made possible because of his death and resurrection.
You are brand new because of that.
Now we have to learn how to renew our mind, to understand our spiritual place and the reality of who he has made us to be brand new.
We are not who we were.
We are who he says we are.
We have to figure that out with himself.
The temptationists believe that this didn't really happen.
That's the temptation.
As after all, we are the same people we've always been, still in the same body, still the same mind, still the blood running through our body, but that's just the physical reality of your life.
But this is why Jesus said, as often as you do this, remember what I've done for you, because we keep forgetting.
We need that reminder, don't we?
So when I took and asked God, why does it matter or does it matter?
The bread or the juices first.
Here's what he said.
You can't put the new blood into the old body.
So I'm going to give you a new body and then the blood can come into your new body and you'll be holy and righteous filled with Christ's life blood.
And at that moment, I understood you can't put new wine into an old wine skin.
You have to be a new creation to receive blood of Christ.
It's all symbolic.
It's all connected and it's all scriptural that the life is in the blood.
And if you want the life of Christ, you have to have his body and be his body.
So he can put his life blood into you because he can't put holy life blood into you until your body is his.
That makes sense.
And that's what he showed me.
And all of a sudden, the patch made sense and the fasting made sense and the blood and the wine and the wines can all be in the same reference.
But Jesus used parables.
So we think about them.
It only took me 45 years to figure that one out.
Something like that.
But maybe longer.
Probably longer than that.
I was thinking I was 51, but I'm 61.
Goodness.
Probably 55 years to figure that one out.
But you got it this morning from a revelation of God finally clarifying.
Did you know?
Did you know you have a spiritual body right now that his life blood flows through when you belong to him?
Did you know he's pleased to dwell in you?
And he brought the father with him and all he asks is that you follow him.
love as he loves and do what he asks.
That's all you have to do.
And during Lent, it's a time of coming humbly before God and saying, help me to live out this life you've called me to.
I repent when I've listened to the old body and the old blood, which says, I am what I used to be.
Instead of who you say, I am brand new in Christ.
You are brand new in Christ.
And Jesus says, as often as you take communion,
Remember what I've done for you.
Jesus did that for you.
Praise His holy name because we couldn't do it for ourselves.
We could just stick a patchwork on and make it worse.
Would you pray with me?
Heavenly Father, thank you for your word this morning that you have given us a new body.
Thank you.
Sometimes this old one just, we're waiting to see the full manifestation of the spiritual one.
But thank you that you've given us a new body and you've given your life blood in us that we would know in our spirit with witness to your spirit that we belong to you, that we are yours.
And that which is outward is wasting away, but that which is inward, as Paul says, is being renewed every day.
So renew us with your mind, your heart, and with your blood.
And as we commune today, Heavenly Father, commune with us,
I pray this in the name of Jesus.
Amen.